Mass Effect's probably my favorite game
in the last three years it just really
pushed on on storytelling and
conversations and all of that to to a
new level for for the whole genre and I
think for the whole industry where do
you feel that that the greatest
improvement in the second game is going
to be yeah there's a lot of improvements
and we took we took feedback from press
from fans from internal sources and we
applied it pretty much across the board
so I'll talk about a different a number
of different areas we're improving that
I think are all really exciting one of
the areas the most visible maybe the
players is the intensity of the
experience and one of the areas that's
in more intense is combat so this is as
much a shooter action game as is it as
it is an RPG so it's almost like a
shooter RPG and we've improved the
precision of controls and combat so it
feels really tight as you're playing
through it we have improved cover system
a very dynamic system of AI for your
party a moment-to-moment movement system
they have tactical control on the
battlefield over where you deploy your
party members and all these things
combined into a very visceral experience
very intense experience that again it
really makes it feel like it's a shooter
as much as anything now that intensity
translates to the dialogue as well
because there's interrupts we can take
control the action kind of just done
really a release unleash shepherds raw
emotion you know he gets impatient just
kind of his punches through and said I'm
just gonna do whatever you little bit
you know random inch in some ways but
it's just what does he feel at that
moment that he's just going to do
somethings exploration is another area
in mass effect two that we've got
feedback on the uncharted worlds were
fun in many ways but we felt they could
be improved infidelity we felt they
could be improved in terms of
integration with the main story arc so
they're still optional you don't have to
do them but if you want to be successful
in surviving this what men
call a suicide mission you have together
the best and brightest and the most
dangerous individuals in the galaxy the
company on your team and you might want
to do some of these optional on charter
worlds which are pretty exciting and
interesting and very high fidelity
content and also integrated the main
story arc in the sense that they'll make
it more likely you'll survive we've got
an improved space exploration mechanic
which uses of fuel so it adds a little
bit of risk contention to the whole
experience to you get to decide where
you want to explore and what you know
how you want to explore them and the
Uncharted worlds link into that too and
technically we've improved a number of
things in the main game too we have a
very tight frame rate you see it you
know playing here it's optimized
experience 30 frames a second and it
plays very fluidly as a result textures
load silky smooth don't think that that
I did before I play the first game I
read the book revelations and I've read
the book ascension now before this the
second game could you give in any hints
as to what kind of hints that book gives
to to what's going on in mass effect two
well we talked about corporation you
know that it's a part of the main game
and it would be spoiling this the plot
to say exactly what role that plays but
it does play well and it's it's part of
the theme of the mass spec to I guess is
this dark second act it's a dark dark
sequel to Mass Effect one and why is it
that way well I mean in Mass Effect one
it was as much as anything about
humanity's entrance under the state of
galactic stage and humanity came onto
the stage kind of bright-eyed
bushy-tailed and naive maybe both oh
there's all these galaxies lactic
civilizations that are so you know well
known and have been around for thousands
of years and so smart and intelligent
but really you lift the veil and behind
the scenes it's actually pretty dark and
sinister in many ways and it's even more
so now because there's a greater threat
and a greater menace that has emerged
even greater than what was in Mass
Effect one that's sort of the really the
sort of the root cause of it all has
come to bear as well so not only are you
really seeing the Galactic Civilizations
for what they really are you're also
seeing this greater Menace for what it
really is too so it's a dark second act
as a result
and hence why it's almost like a
suicidal mission unless you get the
right resources on your side well we've
invested a lot in the back story in the
development of the world in the universe
we're only showing a portion of it in
each game but but we are showing more of
the alien races you get to explore more
the backstory of some of the species he
only had brief interactions within the
first game we also are revealing some
new alien races to like Thane is a
deadliest assassin in the galaxy so you
have to bring him along side if you want
to survive and you get to learn what
he's about and where he's from and
there's other other characters like that
that are pretty interesting too and of
course you know so the Andean creatures
in the world the quests you get to
engage in as you proceed through the
world there's a lot of interesting
things to uncover and explore there so
if you like that kind of thing if you
like learning more about the universe
there's a lot of it in mass effect 2 to
learn and explore from I think that that
the settings some more city esque
settings and a little bit more like
gritty settings you showed up in omega
for instance it's that also part of it
that you want to show off those kind of
settings yeah I know I think we do we
want to show off it all kind of goes
back to this it's a dark second act to
the mass effect trilogy and you know
there's some gritty dirty really gritty
and brutal places you have to go to that
exists in the mass spec galaxy the you
have to explore in mass effect 2 if you
want to get through the story